Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we're going to get Jason data from a U.
RL.
All right, so this is where things get real.
All right, so we have a website here, which is Jason Placeholder.
All right.
And this Jason Placeholder, it is free to use fake online rest APIs for testing and prototyping.
Right.
So let's say so.
This is a fetch code.
We are going to go over the API as well.
I don't want to go over it here, but what do we do now is we are actually sending a request to an API
endpoint.
So this that you can see inside the quotes is actually an API endpoint.
That I showed you in the Ajax Lecture.
So if I click on it, it is going to make a request to this API endpoint and it is going to grab the
response and it is going to grab the response and log it to the console.
So if I click on it, this is what the response is going to be.
So we can use this Jason Placeholder to get posts, comments, albums, photos to DOS users, and we
can do different methods as well.
So this allows us this Jason Placeholder allows us to interact with a rest API.
Which is the kind of API that is done on the backend and Grob data right from the server.
So this is going to implement this.
This is going to mimic this online interaction of data, making the request and receiving the adjacent
data.
So this is available here.
I'm not going to close it.
I've given you the link here.
So what we are going to do is this.
The steps are the same, but we are going to do one thing differently here, and that is that we are
going to add a different event listener and we are going to listen for a state change event.
And when they're ready, state change event happens.
We are going to grab that.
We are going to do something with the data.
So from now on, we are going to do it this way.
So why don't we need to do is first off, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to grab our button.
So instead, each time we do have a button that says get data.
So I'm going to say get data B10.
Very generic name, so document query selector, and I'm just going to use the element selector, so
we are going to say get data button when I click this button.
So add an event listener.
When I click this button, get the data right.
So what does that function?
So we are going to say function, get data.
So what are the first steps?
The first step to make your request is just instantiate the new a new feature object.
And this time I'm going to call it data.
OK, I'm not going to call it new H.R. or ex, H.R. O'Bagy or anything weird like that.
I'm just going to call the data and I'm going to say new XML htp request.
So step one is done now.
Step two is actually setting up that request.
So I'm going to say DataDot open now.
What is the method the method is going to be get and what is the what is the URL or to be accurate,
what is the request to your URL or to be even more accurate, what is the API endpoint?
The API endpoint is right here.
This is the airport, so now the way that you can use this Jason Placeholder, as you can see the after
dot com, it's a slash to DOS and it says one, it means that it is going to grab the idea to do what
has which has a user idea, which has an idea of one.
So instead of to DOS, if you want to grab posts, you just say slash posts.
Right.
So you grab this.
You grab all of this, copy it, you come here, you paste it here, so you want to get the posts or
you want to get the traduce.
So if you get the traduce, I think there are only 200.
Yeah, a lot.
If you get the users, you're going to get to 10 users.
So let's change this to users.
Let's remove the final slash and we are going to get it asynchronously.
So now the second step is done.
What is the third step?
The third step is what do we want to do when you receive that data?
So we are going to say data that at a million listener.
That at a wellness center and we are going to listen for a red state change and we know what the red
state change is, red state change event, and when that event is fired, when the red state change
happens, it means that the states, they go from zero, which is unsaid.
Then they go to one, which is when the open excuse me, when the open method is called, then they
go to two for it.
When is four, which is when we get the letters.
And what was the third one?
The third one is when the request is loading.
I'm not reading from the slides.
I'm just I just memorized it in the previous lecture.
And the fourth state is when the request is completed.
So when the ready state, they are changing.
This event is going to fire on this data or this new XIKAR object.
And what do we want to look specifically for?
We want to say this, that status should be equal to 200 and this dot red state should be what is the
state that we are interested in?
That is state number four when everything is completed and then we are going to grab our data and we
want to log it.
To the.
So this is step number three, what is step number four, sending the request.
So DataDot send.
So it does make this window smaller, so if I were to click on this getData, we should be able to get
data, right?
So that's click.
Oh, he took took a little, so it took some time to get the data, but that's why I clicked again.
So let's click on data and we do get the data.
So this is the data.
We have 10 users.
I can zoom out a little bit.
And so this is Aidy one.
This is the name Linn Graham, user name Brett.
This is Editta Irvan.
How how well.
And then we have Clementino Bunch.
But but yeah.
Anyways, so we have 10 users.
You can see that this is Jason.
How do we turn, how do we convert it to a valid JavaScript thing or value.
Not think we could just say let users, let's store it here and we could say Jason did pass.
What do we want to pass.
We want to pass the data of course.
What else?
And OK, so we have data, we want to parse the response text, so this data response.
60, click on it, save it, click here and let's wait for it.
Oh, we are not logging it.
What am I waiting for?
So let's log it as well.
Users just click on it and voila, we get a regular JavaScript array with a bunch of objects in it and
we get all the now these information, all of them, they are more readable and these objects are also
nested.
So this is a nest.
This is an object nested within an object.
That's a cool thing, right?
You can use all this data, for example, to generate random users to generate random like testimonials
if you want.
If that is if you're doing prototyping, you can do this data to generate everything that you want.
All right.
So this is going to be it for this lecture.
And let me just go over this one more time.
So we instantiated the new XIKAR object in the second step.
We created the requestor.
We set up the request, we set it up, we set up the request.
And third state, we were listening for it, registering ready state change event.
And when the ready state was four, we ran this code.
So this code, you know, that this when this code runs, it has a status of 200 and the registered
is four because otherwise this code will never run.
So so how do we know that?
How do we know that this code will never run if the status is different?
So let me just make the smaller.
Let me just increase this.
So now you can see that this is the request you, Earl.
This is the API endpoint.
What if I mess something up in here?
What do we get there?
So instead of users, user user users says if I just add an E there and if I save it and when I click
on it, what do we get?
We get a status of four for all right, get this is an error c this is like a typical error 404.
If I come to the Ajax file less than four and if I come here, we know that errors in the range of 400
to 499, they are called client errors.
What does it mean.
It is a client error.
What does it mean?
Who is client.
Me and you.
The people who are making their request, they are the clients, the people who are receiving the request
and making their response.
They are the server.
Very simple.
So this is an error on our part, not on the servers far.
So the server is working correctly, but we made an 404 error.
So this is a client HR.
It means that we missed something up in our code and we missed this.
That's why we say that we are listening for this.
We are only logging.
And you can see that we didn't log anything because the status was not 200.
And now if I save it and when I click it because the status is 200, we do get our data successfully.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.